  the full cost of damage in newton stewart , one of the areas worst affected ,  is still being assessed .  repair work is ongoing in hawick  and many roads in peeblesshire remain badly affected by standing water .  trains on the west coast mainline face disruption due to damage at the lamington viaduct .  many businesses and householders were affected by flooding in newton stewart  after the river cree overflowed into the town .  first minister nicola sturgeon visited the area  to inspect the damage .  the waters breached a retaining wall ,  flooding many commercial properties on victoria street - the main shopping thoroughfare .  jeanette tate ,  who owns the cinnamon cafe  which was badly affected ,  said  she could not fault the multi - agency response  once the flood hit .  however ,  she said  more preventative work could have been carried out  to ensure  the retaining wall did not fail .  " it is difficult  but i do think  there is so much publicity for dumfries and the nith - and i totally appreciate that - but it is almost like we 're neglected or forgotten , "  she said .  " that may not be true  but it is perhaps my perspective over the last few days .  " why were you not ready to help us a bit more  when the warning  and the alarm alerts had gone out ? "  meanwhile , a flood alert remains in place across the borders  because of the constant rain .  peebles was badly hit by problems ,  sparking calls  to introduce more defences in the area .  scottish borders council has put a list on its website of the roads worst affected  and drivers have been urged not to ignore closure signs .  the labour party 's deputy scottish leader alex rowley was in hawick on monday  to see the situation first hand .  he said  it was important to get the flood protection plan right  but backed calls  to speed up the process .  " i was quite taken aback by the amount of damage  that has been done , "  he said .  " obviously it is heart - breaking for people  who have been forced out of their homes and the impact on businesses . "  he said  it was important that " immediate steps " were taken  to protect the areas most vulnerable and a clear timetable  put in place for flood prevention plans .  have you been affected by flooding in dumfries and galloway or the borders ?  tell us about your experience of the situation  and how it was handled .  email us on selkirk.news@bbc.co.uk or dumfries@bbc.co.uk .